README.md, before:

## gloria

This project enables GLORIA .dat files to be read, rewritten, and converted.

### The gloria package

The `GLORIAFile` class is a context manager for GLORIA files.  The class contains methods for reading the scan header and data in the .dat file, rewriting the scan header and subsetting the data, and converting the file to netCDF4.

### Simple utility scripts

#### gloria_to_nc.py

This script converts a GLORIA .dat file to netCDF4.  The default output netCDF filename has the same name as the input .dat file, but with a .nc file suffix.  Optionally an alternative output netCDF filename can be explicitly given.

```bash
python3 gloria_to_nc.py infile.dat [outfile.nc]
```

Each scan (header and data) appears as a netCDF4 group in the output file.  The group is named `scan<n>`, where `<n>` is the scan number.  The scan header items become attributes of the group in the netCDF file, and the data are stored as a `sonar_samples`-long 1D data array.

#### gloria_to_txt.py

This script converts a GLORIA .dat file to a simple ASCII text file.  The output text filename has the same name as the input .dat file, but with a .txt file suffix.  Optionally an alternative output text filename can be explicitly given.

```bash
python3 gloria_to_txt.py infile.dat [outfile.txt]
```

The format of the text file is a straightforward rendering of the binary .dat format to text, i.e. for each scan, the header items are output followed by the data.

#### plot_gloria.py

This script will plot the scans from the given file as a sonargram, in its default mode (`--sonargram`).  In its other mode (`--scans`), it will plot samples from the first `nrows` x `ncols` scans, in an `nrows` by `ncols` grid of plots.  By default `nrows` = `ncols` = 1, hence only the first scan is plotted.  The file can be either a GLORIA .dat file, or a converted netCDF file.

```bash
python3 plot_gloria.py [-h] [-r | -s] [-g NROWS NCOLS] [-c CONTRAST] [-m CMAP] filename.{dat,nc}
```

#### read_gloria.py

This script will read the given GLORIA .dat file, and print the number of scans in the file, and a summary of the first scan.  This summary contains the length of the sonar samples array, the scan header, and the *head* of the data array (by default the first 10 samples), to give an initial simple look at the data.

The script's primary purpose is as a simple example of how to use the `GLORIAFile` class to read a GLORIA .dat data file.

```bash
python3 read_gloria.py filename.dat
```

#### write_gloria.py

This script will read the given input GLORIA .dat file, and write the scans (header and data) to the given output GLORIA .dat file.  Optionally a subset of the input data can be written out, specified as the first `nscans` scans, and the first `nsamples` samples of these scans.  If `nscans` and `nsamples` are not specified, then the output file is identical to the input file.  Note that as the GLORIA record format is fixed-width, when subsetting samples the unwanted samples are actually set to zero, to preserve the correct record length.

The script's primary purpose is as a simple example of how to use the `GLORIAFile` class to rewrite a GLORIA .dat data file.

```bash
python3 write_gloria.py infile.dat outfile.dat [nscans [nsamples]]
```

Commit message:

Add option to save plot to file

README.md, after:

## gloria

This project enables GLORIA .dat files to be read, rewritten, and converted.

### The gloria package

The `GLORIAFile` class is a context manager for GLORIA files.  The class contains methods for reading the scan header and data in the .dat file, rewriting the scan header and subsetting the data, and converting the file to netCDF4.

### Simple utility scripts

#### gloria_to_nc.py

This script converts a GLORIA .dat file to netCDF4.  The default output netCDF filename has the same name as the input .dat file, but with a .nc file suffix.  Optionally an alternative output netCDF filename can be explicitly given.

```bash
python3 gloria_to_nc.py infile.dat [outfile.nc]
```

Each scan (header and data) appears as a netCDF4 group in the output file.  The group is named `scan<n>`, where `<n>` is the scan number.  The scan header items become attributes of the group in the netCDF file, and the data are stored as a `sonar_samples`-long 1D data array.

#### gloria_to_txt.py

This script converts a GLORIA .dat file to a simple ASCII text file.  The output text filename has the same name as the input .dat file, but with a .txt file suffix.  Optionally an alternative output text filename can be explicitly given.

```bash
python3 gloria_to_txt.py infile.dat [outfile.txt]
```

The format of the text file is a straightforward rendering of the binary .dat format to text, i.e. for each scan, the header items are output followed by the data.

#### plot_gloria.py

This script will plot the scans from the given file as a sonargram, in its default mode (`--sonargram`).  In its other mode (`--scans`), it will plot samples from the first `nrows` x `ncols` scans, in an `nrows` by `ncols` grid of plots.  By default `nrows` = `ncols` = 1, hence only the first scan is plotted.  The file can be either a GLORIA .dat file, or a converted netCDF file.

```bash
python3 plot_gloria.py [-h] [-r | -s] [-g NROWS NCOLS] [-c CONTRAST] [-m CMAP] [-o out_file.{png,tiff,pdf}] in_file.{dat,nc} [out_file.{png,tiff,pdf}]
```

Alternatively, instead of displaying the plot, the script can save the plot to an output file.  This can be speficied by *either* the `--output-file` option, *or* simply as a second, optional positional argument, for example to save as a PNG:

```bash
python3 plot_gloria.py in_file.dat out_file.png
```

When saving the plot, any of the formats supported by matplotlib can be specified by using the appropriate file suffix.  For example, an output file named `out_file.tiff` will save as a TIFF file, `out_file.pdf` will save as a PDF etc.

#### read_gloria.py

This script will read the given GLORIA .dat file, and print the number of scans in the file, and a summary of the first scan.  This summary contains the length of the sonar samples array, the scan header, and the *head* of the data array (by default the first 10 samples), to give an initial simple look at the data.

The script's primary purpose is as a simple example of how to use the `GLORIAFile` class to read a GLORIA .dat data file.

```bash
python3 read_gloria.py filename.dat
```

#### write_gloria.py

This script will read the given input GLORIA .dat file, and write the scans (header and data) to the given output GLORIA .dat file.  Optionally a subset of the input data can be written out, specified as the first `nscans` scans, and the first `nsamples` samples of these scans.  If `nscans` and `nsamples` are not specified, then the output file is identical to the input file.  Note that as the GLORIA record format is fixed-width, when subsetting samples the unwanted samples are actually set to zero, to preserve the correct record length.

The script's primary purpose is as a simple example of how to use the `GLORIAFile` class to rewrite a GLORIA .dat data file.

```bash
python3 write_gloria.py infile.dat outfile.dat [nscans [nsamples]]
```
